THE BEGINNING
M S Ramaiah Institute of Technology (MSRIT) was started in 1962 by Late Dr. M S Ramaiah, our Founder Chairman who was a renowned visionary, philanthropist, and a pioneer in creating several landmark infrastructure projects in India. Noticing the shortage of talented engineering professionals required to build a modern India, Dr. M S Ramaiah envisioned MSRIT as an institute of excellence imparting quality and affordable education. Part of Gokula Education Foundation, MSRIT has grown over the years with significant contributions from various professionals in different capacities, ably led by Dr. M S Ramaiah himself, whose personal commitment has seen the institution through its formative years. Today, MSRIT stands tall as one of India’s finest names in Engineering Education and has produced around 35,000 engineering professionals who occupy responsible positions across the globe.

EARLY PERIOD (1962 – 1972)
MSRIT was founded by the great Philanthropist, Visionary, Industrialist and Educationist Dr. M.S. Ramaiah on 4th August 1962 offering Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering branches under the leadership of Prof. C.R. Ramachandran who was the first Principal.
Prof. Y. A. Prahalada Rao took over the responsibility of the HOD of Mechanical Engineering in the year 1963 and continued till 1977 as the Head. He became the Principal in 1971 and led the Institute commendably with the help of a dedicated team of faculty.
Five year integrated course in Civil Engineering was started in the year 1971 and was headed by Prof. M. Venkata Krishnaiah.

DECADE OF GROWTH
The journey of success continued with the addition of Electronics & Communication Engineering department in 1975. The department made a difference by acquiring top ranks at the University level and majority of the students had gone abroad for higher studies and many reached responsible positions in multinational companies.
In view of the Industrialization of Indian Economy, MSRIT started on time the Industrial and Production Engineering branch in the year 1979. With the addition of Metrology Laboratory in 1982 and Industrial Engineering Laboratory in 1983, the Institute of Engineers (India) recognized the Industrial and Production Engineering course offered by the Institute in 1989. Presently it is renamed as Industrial Engineering and Management.

DECADE OF CONSOLIDATION
M. Tech in Structural Engineering was started in the Civil department in the year 1983.
Computerization of the world led to starting new branches like Computer Science and Engineering in the year 1984.
Subsequently, Instrumentation Technology was started in 1992 and Information Science and Engineering in 1992.
In addition to these departments, to meet the growing needs in the infra structural sector, Architecture Department was started in 1992.

DECADE OF EXPANSION
With the objective of imparting contemporary technologies in the field of Telecommunication Engineering, MSRIT started Department of Telecommunication Engineering in the year 1997 affiliated to Bangalore University.
With the advancement in technologies and challenges faced in health care sector, MSRIT with an intention of creating skilled manpower and to explore the plethora of opportunities started the Department of Medical Electronics in 1996.
With the objective of creating high quality professionals to meet the global challenges in the field of Computer Applications, Department of Master of Computer Applications was established in 1997.
To enhance management skills MSRIT started Department of Management Studies (MBA) in the year 1998 which is growing from strength to strength day by day and within a short time the department has carved a niche amongst the comity of colleges offering MBA degree.

